---
layout: "layouts/post.njk"
tags: "plannings"
number: "1"
title: "John R. Raser"
subtitle: "That Guy Who Knew About War & Games"
published: "06/03/2022"
author: "Moozhan Shakeri"
---

The Dutch Government ambition is that by 2030, only zero emission passenger cars will be sold in the Netherlands. The Formula E-Team is the Dutch public-private platform to promote e-mobility and accelerate the transition to electric vehicles. The aim is to meet the climate targets and, in addition, to take advantage of the associated economic opportunities.

Despite the Covid19 pandemic, the number of full electric passenger cars increased in 2020. A purchase subsidy was introduced in 2020 for both new and used cars1. The budget for new cars was exhausted in one week, almost 25% of new registrations were electric vehicles, with over 20% being BEVs. The pandemic did impact the sector tremendously; people worked from home and therefore charged less. Large investments were in the sector were also postponed.

The National Charging Infrastructure Agenda, installed as part of the [National Climate Agreement](https://www.government.nl/documents/reports/2019/06/28/climate-agreement), was fully implemented, resulting in an increase of the number of charging points installed per month.

Additional major milestones in the Netherlands includes: the announcement of zero emission zone (ZEZ) implementation for the 30-40 largest cities by 2025, 20 cities have already announced their plans for a ZEZ and more are expected to follow, and the 1,000th zero-emission public transport bus was delivered - making 1/5th of the total bus fleet for public transport zero-emission. The Netherlands is on track for its target to have 100% of public transport buses zero-emission by 2030.

The [National Charging Infrastructure Agenda](https://english.rvo.nl/sites/default/files/2020/10/Factsheet%20The%20National%20Charging%20Infrastructure%20Agenda.pdf) was drawn up, the guiding principle is that all new passenger cars will be zero emission in 2030 and that charging infrastructure will not be a barrier for electrification of other vehicle modes.

Cities can implement a zero emission zone for commercial vehicles from the 1st of January 2025. From 2025, all new trucks and vans that want to enter a zero emission zone need to be emission free.

A National Strategic Approach to Batteries was announced, in which various ministries collaborate to address responsible use (such as raw materials and recycling issues) and smart exploitation of opportunities (such as economic chances for Dutch industry and using batteries as a grid buffer).

One of the drivers behind the increase of electric vehicles in the Netherlands is fiscal stimulation. The focus on stimulating zero emission vehicles, tax measures for plug-in hybrid vehicles will gradually be reduced to the same level as conventional cars.

In 2020, a national purchase subsidy was introduced: € 4,000 for a new car (2020 budget € 10 million) and € 2,000 for a used car (2020 budget €7.2 million). The subsidy scheme is valid until 2025 with a annually decreasing amount for new cars. The subsidy is applicable to BEVS with a range of at least 120 km, with a catalogue value between € 12,000 and € 45,000 and not for converted cars. The subsidy for new cars was exhausted in just one week and resulted in a sales spike.

The decrease in the energy tax for electricity for public chargers has been extended to 2022. It contributes to the willingness of companies to invest in public charging infrastructure.
